Let me spend the next five or
ten minutes or so
telling you about some radically
new data sets in marketing.
Cuz what I've talked to you about for
the first you know 20, 30 minutes or so
here, are kind of traditional TV data,
online data, etc.
Let me talk to you about some radically
new data sets in marketing, and
let me encourage everyone listening
to this to think about how
you might be able to use these kinds of
data sets for better decision-making.
So, one of the favorite studies that
I've talked about,and I'll talk
about again in the future is, imagine
you could track the following data.
Imagine you could take data.
Let's take a supermarket and a store.
Imagine you could collect
data on people's intentions.
So what did they intend to buy
prior to going into the store?
Now why would you wanna know this?
Well, then you could compare what
they intended to buy with what
they actually bought and then you could
see how much unplanned purchasing happens.
Imagine you could collect
shopper path data and
a radio-frequence identification data.
In other words you could track where
the customer is in the store, and
that's really valuable.
Cuz again, let me go back to
the example I gave before.
Let's imagine you're a manufacturer
of children's cereal, and
the reason why your sales are low isn't
because your product isn't liked, but
because no one goes to the part of
the store where your product is located.
Well, you can change that problem
by buying different shelf space and
moving your product throughout the store.
Field of vision, imagine you can
actually have eye-tracking data;
where you can actually measure what
products people are looking at.
Cuz imagine for example,
you're a soda, you make soda and
your soda's sitting there on the shelf but
nobody looks at it.
Well if they don't look
at it they can't buy it.
And last is purchase data.
So the exciting part about analytics
today is again, imagine having
all of these data sets at the individual
customer level and linked between them.
So let me give you an example of a project
that I worked on about five years ago,
along with my colleague Pete Fader and
a former doctoral student of ours, Sam Wi.
This was a data set called Path Tracker,
where we actually tracked
people moving around stores.
And you can see a little
supermarket cart sitting there.
And you can see these red concentric
circles moving out from there,
that's meant to represent a silent ping.
You can't hear it.
But it's a silent ping that's being sent
out to the different scanners around
the store, that allows you to triangulate,
within a foot, where the person
is located throughout the store.
And so, this is the kind of data sets
that are available today in application.
Now five years ago when we
worked on this project,
this was done by attaching little devices
to the bottom of supermarket carts.
That was the best technology.
That was the golden age of
marketing in 2009, 2010.
Now five years later, most of us,
if not all of us have cell
phones in their pocket, and
you should know, your cell phone company
knows your geospatial location at any
point in time and they can monetize
that value of the geospatial location.
So let's imagine you have a data set where
you now not only know what people buy
at the check out counter, remember going
back a few slides that was 1980s data,
the scanner data, but
now imagine I could know where
you were physically in the store.
And by the way, this isn't just for
physical in store data.
This could be applied to website data.
I not only know what websites you went to,
but the time you went to those websites,
how long you spent on those websites.
Just think about this
as being spacial data.
So, imagine a world where customers
could be tracked inside the store.
So, this solid line you're
seeing now in front of you,
that represents a customer's path,
one customer's path throughout the store.
The little black squares you see represent
their physical location
every five seconds.
And the red squares
represent the products they
purchased at various
locations in the store.
And notice like most stores,
you pick up your cart on the right.
You go around counter-clockwise,
and then you check out,
which is typically at the end,
at the bottom, center of the store.
So this would be a typical path
of someone throughout the store.
How do shoppers move
throughout the store?,
might be one question you're
interested in answering.
I remember as a child,
this was well before I was born, but
there was a famous show on, Leave it to
Beaver, which talked about a show that was
taking place in the 1950s was meant
to be an all American family, and
they always would show the person going up
and down the aisles of the supermarket.
Up-down, up-down, up-down, up-down.
It actually turns out, and actually it's
through analytics do we know this today,
it turns out that's actually not how
people move throughout the store.
People do not go up and
down the aisles, as a matter of fact if
you go in one side of an aisle and go out
the other side that's called a traverse.
If you go in one side of an aisle,
out the other side and
back around the end cap that's called a
zig zag, where you go down let's say aisle
five around and then up aisle six,
that's called a zig zag.
It turns out most customers
make only one traverse,
meaning they only go down an aisle once.
It turns out most people do
what are called excursions,
they go inside an aisle and
then out the same side they came in on.
Most people do not go up and
down the aisles.
And we now know this because of
analytics at the customer level.
So this is not how people move.
What I'm now showing you a picture of is
a store plan-o-gram where you can see
where most people move.
And notice in the center of the aisles,
you can see the center here, nobody
ever goes to the center of the aisles.
Most of the time people only go
to about a third of the way and
then they come back out the same side.
Now, why is that valuable?
Well let me go back to my
emergency room doctor example.
I'm a manufacturer of a product,
I'm selling it inside a supermarket, my
sales aren't what I would like them to be.
And now I start to wonder,
huh, I wonder why?
I wonder if it's because people
don't like my product, or
I wonder if it's cuz when people enter the
store, they don't ever visit my product.
Well customer analytics
now allows you to do this.
What you can see from this store level
layout is that people just don't
go to the middle aisles that often.
They pretty much only do on
what's called the racetrack, or
the outer ring of the store.
The almost never do in the interior
aisles, and the basic idea is that's bad
shelf space, so you should not be paying
for shelf space where customers do not go.
And as a matter of fact you can show that,
and we've analyzed data from thousands and
thousands of different stores.
This may come as a surprise to you.
In physical stores, super markets,
clothing stores, sporting goods stores,
etc., most customers, on any given visit,
only cover about 25% of the store.
That's remarkable, so 75% of the store
on any visit they do not go to.
And that's an opportunity,
it would be valuable to know that.
What I'm now showing you here is
what's called a heatmap of the store.
Red is hot, green is not as hot,
but still pretty much hot,
yellow is less hot, and then blue is cold.
Notice where's really really cold,
the middle of the aisles, cold.
The outer ring of the store, hot,
the race track, which is why you see firms
paying lots of money for the outer ring of
the store, they want to be on the end cap,
they want to be on the end aisles, and
by the way the only way you know this.
No.
Could you actually have humans sitting in
the store watching where people are going
and recording?
You could.
Very expensive.
Can't be scaled.
Measured with a lot of error.
Could you put cameras in the store,
which has been done for years.
You could, but it's very obtrusive.
Now all the sudden people know
they're being watched and
maybe they behave differently.
Plus you have to take that video data and
you have to make it quantifiable.
What customer level analytics has done is,
I can now track customer by customer
where they go inside my physical store,
and I can actually tie that to their
purchasing data, so now I can target them
even better with products and services.